This study addresses the effects of the firm’s level of engagement with trade associations located at the company’s export market on export performance. It analyzes firm-level data from a South American emerging economy, Chile. Results show that a stronger engagement with trade associations located at the company’s export market has a positive effect on export performance. Environmental uncertainty on customer needs is confirmed as an export performance barrier, but unexpectedly, this obstacle only diminishes in a negligible factor as the level of engagement with trade associations located at the firm’s export market increases. This study contributes to the international management literature by investigating the direct and moderating effects of overseas trade associations on the firm’s export performance, and by scrutinizing on the distinctions among the cooperation determinants of local networks and networks situated at the firm’s export market. Practical implications are discussed.

Knowledge transfer and innovation cooperation between the EU and its neighbours has remained weakly developed. To promote this cooperation, the EU has set up initiatives for the European neighbourhood. The issue has, however, received very limited scholarly attention in the field of tourism. This research gap is addressed here via interview data collected from participants in tourism related EU-funded projects in the Finnish-Russian cross-border region. These underline the importance of EU-funding in facilitating knowledge transfer and innovation between Finland and Russia. While language issues, and differences in business culture and administrative/legislative systems between the two countries, constitute barriers for practical cross-border cooperation, it is cross-border differences in culture and technological capabilities that drive cross-border knowledge transfer and innovation in the cross-border region. The paper concludes with policy recommendations for promoting future cross-border cooperation in innovation and tourism.

Small and medium forest enterprises (SMFEs) are small firms in developing countries aimed at generating income from a diverse set of forest-related activities. They result in multiple dimensions of economic, social, and cultural prosperity in forest-dependent economies, and as such they constitute an important strategy for fostering prosperity. However, SMFEs face a number of barriers and challenges, including inhospitable or incompatible regulatory environments, difficulties achieving economies of scale, and insufficient access to technical and financial capacity to overcome these issues. Through a comprehensive literature review of scholarly research published on the subject of SMFE failures and successes, our study addressed the following question: what political, economic, and socio-cultural conditions are needed for SMFEs to thrive? In answering this question, we identified and characterized twelve (12) emergent critical success factors (CSFs) of enabling business environments: macroeconomic setting, regulatory frameworks, forest law enforcement, tenure and ownership rights, management and land use planning rights, markets, natural capital, financial capital, forest management capacities, business management capacities, organizational capacities, and clustering. The integrative enabling environment framework proposed in our study can be used as a tool by practitioners seeking to promote SMFEs through programs of support or policy reforms. By considering the various CSFs that act as the foundation for successful SMFE development, the efficacy of forest-dependent livelihood interventions aiming to achieve prosperity around the world can be meaningfully enhanced.

                 Cross-border tourism governance processes have remained complex despite increasing permeability of European borders in the last decades. While it has been suggested that the presence of cross-border socio-cultural connections may alleviate border-related tourism management complexities, no detailed studies have been conducted yet to explore this assumption. This paper analyses the role of socio-cultural relations and history and identity discourses in destination development of the cross-border Vogtland region between the federal states of Saxony and Thuringia (Germany). Results of the mixed-method case study indicate that even though financial incentives remain central for cooperation, mobilising an identity discourse facilitates cross-border tourism governance in three ways: through (i) reducing the perception among stakeholders that administrative borders pose barriers for cooperation; (ii) internal stimulation of discussion of socio-economic and identity futures, and (iii) external presentation of a univocal destination image, thereby reducing marketing ambiguity and re-fuelling internal regional identity performativity. These effects are critically dependent on political decisions and the integrative institutionalisation of diverse stakeholders’ voices in the destination development and management process. Capitalising on place identities may facilitate cross-border destination development but may also create pitfalls to safeguard the regional integration of stakeholders in this process.
              
When do contentious politics arise around forest certification? In Russia, forestry firms have adopted Forest Stewardship Council certification more rapidly and with fewer challenges in Northwestern regions than in the Russian Far East. In 2011–2012, contentious politics broke out in response to a revision of Russia's national FSC standards. This case allows us to build upon and extend arguments about how domestic conditions shape actors' responses to private environmental governance. Regional variation in Russia suggests that collective mobilization to weaken certification is more likely to emerge under conditions of high levels of biodiversity, proximity to markets that are not sensitive to certification, and low penetration by multinational firms. However, the key factor facilitating collective action in this case was the emergence of an industry-government alliance that was rooted in prior industry-government collusion on the illegal logging, mutual investments in wood, and a lack of knowledge about FSC certification. Contentious politics gave way to constructive negotiations between stakeholders in 2013–2017 following the construction of several forums of negotiation.
               
Collecting rich qualitative data in business-to-business market context, where respondents are more reluctant towards investing time in academic research, may impose several barriers for researchers. In particular, challenges may emerge in collecting data and establishing its trustworthiness in Central Eastern European (CEE) countries, due to a distinct business context that has developed over several historical instances.
The aim of this paper is to investigate and understand the methodological challenges of collecting rich qualitative data on business relationships and networking in CEE countries. The countries in focus are Russia, Croatia and Hungary. In order to achieve our aims, we critically reflect on personal experiences and consult the literature on conducting research in the aforementioned countries. The contribution of the paper lies in context-sensitive implications for methodological specifics and plausible solutions to overcome barriers to conducting qualitative research on business relationships and networks in CEE countries.
               
Equity-based crowdfunding is emerging as an increasingly important source of entrepreneurial financing. This paper examines the effects of informal institutions on entrepreneurs' ability and willingness to engage in efforts to raise equity crowdfunding. It also investigates how informal institutions are linked to investors' response to ECF. Also reviewed are the differences in the effects of informal institutions on equity crowdfunding vis-à-vis other forms of crowdfunding. The paper also delves into factors that are likely to lead to the development of favorable informal institutions from the standpoint of equity crowdfunding. It utilizes inductive theory-building approach.
               
Climate change is a global concern. Within Nordic countries such as Finland it has particular influence on the use of natural resources. Family forest owners own 61% of the forested land in Finland and 80% of the industrial roundwood purchased comes from these forest owners. Thus how private forest owners approach climate change is of high national economic and ecological importance. In order to understand family forest owners' perspectives on climate change in their own forests, qualitative interviews along walks through the owner's forests were conducted. Analysis of the conversations during these walks highlighted that forest owners discussed the phenomenon without prompting more often than hypothesized. Additionally, forest owners were less certain as to the causes of changes observed in their forests, mostly willing to take advice from professionals, and economically-driven in their response. For those forest owners who did express concern regarding climate change, they were at a loss for ways their efforts could make a meaningful difference. The prevalent uncertainty among forest owners calls for guidance from authority. Policy practices should make an effort to combine monetary incentives along with climate change focused forest management practices. Additionally, forest owner's reliance on the advice and expertise of forestry professionals should be utilized when pursuing climate-motivated forest management.

Summary Background The Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2016 (GBD 2016) provides a comprehensive assessment of risk factor exposure and attributable burden of disease. By providing estimates over a long time series, this study can monitor risk exposure trends critical to health surveillance and inform policy debates on the importance of addressing risks in context. Methods We used the comparative risk assessment framework developed for previous iterations of GBD to estimate levels and trends in exposure, attributable deaths, and attributable disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), by age group, sex, year, and location for 84 behavioural, environmental and occupational, and metabolic risks or clusters of risks from 1990 to 2016. This study included 481 risk-outcome pairs that met the GBD study criteria for convincing or probable evidence of causation. We extracted relative risk (RR) and exposure estimates from 22 717 randomised controlled trials, cohorts, pooled cohorts, household surveys, census data, satellite data, and other sources, according to the GBD 2016 source counting methods. Using the counterfactual scenario of theoretical minimum risk exposure level (TMREL), we estimated the portion of deaths and DALYs that could be attributed to a given risk. Finally, we explored four drivers of trends in attributable burden: population growth, population ageing, trends in risk exposure, and all other factors combined. Findings Since 1990, exposure increased significantly for 30 risks, did not change significantly for four risks, and decreased significantly for 31 risks. Among risks that are leading causes of burden of disease, child growth failure and household air pollution showed the most significant declines, while metabolic risks, such as body-mass index and high fasting plasma glucose, showed significant increases. In 2016, at Level 3 of the hierarchy, the three leading risk factors in terms of attributable DALYs at the global level for men were smoking (124·1 million DALYs [95% UI 111·2 million to 137·0 million]), high systolic blood pressure (122·2 million DALYs [110·3 million to 133·3 million], and low birthweight and short gestation (83·0 million DALYs [78·3 million to 87·7 million]), and for women, were high systolic blood pressure (89·9 million DALYs [80·9 million to 98·2 million]), high body-mass index (64·8 million DALYs [44·4 million to 87·6 million]), and high fasting plasma glucose (63·8 million DALYs [53·2 million to 76·3 million]). In 2016 in 113 countries, the leading risk factor in terms of attributable DALYs was a metabolic risk factor. Smoking remained among the leading five risk factors for DALYs for 109 countries, while low birthweight and short gestation was the leading risk factor for DALYs in 38 countries, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. In terms of important drivers of change in trends of burden attributable to risk factors, between 2006 and 2016 exposure to risks explains an 9·3% (6·9–11·6) decline in deaths and a 10·8% (8·3–13·1) decrease in DALYs at the global level, while population ageing accounts for 14·9% (12·7–17·5) of deaths and 6·2% (3·9–8·7) of DALYs, and population growth for 12·4% (10·1–14·9) of deaths and 12·4% (10·1–14·9) of DALYs. The largest contribution of trends in risk exposure to disease burden is seen between ages 1 year and 4 years, where a decline of 27·3% (24·9–29·7) of the change in DALYs between 2006 and 2016 can be attributed to declines in exposure to risks. Interpretation Increasingly detailed understanding of the trends in risk exposure and the RRs for each risk-outcome pair provide insights into both the magnitude of health loss attributable to risks and how modification of risk exposure has contributed to health trends. Metabolic risks warrant particular policy attention, due to their large contribution to global disease burden, increasing trends, and variable patterns across countries at the same level of development. GBD 2016 findings show that, while it has huge potential to improve health, risk modification has played a relatively small part in the past decade. Funding The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies.
               
This paper examines the dynamics of Chinese investment in Greenland’s mining industry, drawing on findings from interviews with representatives from selected companies, organizations, and financial institutions. Support from the central government, along with political stability and an abundance of high-quality mineral resources, has facilitated Chinese investment in Greenland’s mining sector in recent years. Chinese mining companies now operating in Greenland have, however, faced a number of problems along the way. A dearth of international management skills and stringent social and environmental legislation in particular have proved to be major challenges for Chinese mining companies investing in Greenland.
               
The monthly data of China's log import from January 2000 to December 2013 are used to estimate the import demand elasticities, with the consideration of possible price endogeneity due to China's large share of the international log market, and structural break caused by global financial crisis in 2008. To address the possible structural break, cointegration tests allowing for a deterministic shift in the level of the variables are employed, and a two-stage estimation with top-down sequential elimination algorithm is performed on the restricted subset VECM. The results demonstrate that there exists a long-run cointegration relationship between China's log import and the explanatory variables. The import elasticities of macroeconomic development and import price are around 0.76 and −0.81, respectively. Other things being equal, the structural break would induce a 29.6% decline in China's log import. All the above parameters are significant at the 1% risk level. Furthermore, the contribution decomposition analysis suggests that China's macroeconomic development plays a dominant role in determining its log import, which implies that China's log import would not increase as quickly as before, given that its economy is shifting into the “New Normal State”. This conjecture is supported by our simulations, which indicate that, by 2020, the growth rate of China's log import will be lower than it has been in the past and the import volume would be approximately 1.1–1.6 times greater compared to imports in 2013.
               
Many foresight exercises have been undertaken with the aim of improving the performance of innovation ecosystems. These ecosystems extend across different layers including the organisational, sectoral, regional, national and international dimensions. The interconnectedness of these layers has not have received much attention in foresight literature and practise. However, both the development and diffusion of innovations are subject to framework conditions not only within, but also across, multiple layers of innovation ecosystems.
The design and management of foresight exercises are thus liable to addressing and serving these different layers — especially when the goal is to improve the performance and impact of such “interconnected and interdependent systems”. This paper develops further the concept of ‘multi-layered foresight’ by addressing multiple layers of innovation ecosystems in foresight design and management. We explore the implications of applying this type of foresight on improving systemic understanding, enhancing stakeholder networking and developing innovation capacities across the layers of ecosystems. The theoretical underpinnings are tested through a case study of the ‘Personal Health Systems (PHS) Foresight’ project. This project explored international future developments in the health sector, which is characterised by multiple disciplines, communities of practise, technologies, and geographical contexts. In the case of PHS the emerging innovation ecosystems are often conditioned by fragmented development communities, major barriers to market development, and duplication of efforts. The project combined analytical, social networking, online envisioning and scenario building methods to address complexity and create impact in multiple layers. Possible futures for personal health systems were explored through intense dialogues with stakeholders and a desirable future state was sketched through the success scenario methodology. The implications and strategic issues for different groups of stakeholders were outlined, enabling these stakeholders to articulate their efforts as part of a broader agenda at the multiple layers of innovation ecosystems.
               
This article, to date, is the first to consolidate, review, and integrate over 250 earlier studies that examine the country-specific determinants of cross-border mergers and acquisitions. Following 6Ws’ systematic review design and protocol, we survey the taxonomy of research published over the past three decades in international business, strategic management, finance, and economics. We present our syntheses in seven strands: macroeconomic and financial markets environment, institutional and regulatory environment, political environment and corruption, tax and the taxation environment, accounting standards and valuation guidelines, cultural environment, and geographical environment. Our integrative review and discussions are framed through Home–Host country, West–South, and South–West directional flows. We then show some highlights of the bibliometric analysis, provide a summary for each country-level determinant, and offer several theoretical propositions and research directions in need of future exploration. The review suggests that better the host country’s institutional laws with regard to financial markets, taxation and corporate governance, then higher the number of inward acquisitions. It emphasizes that geopolitical distance, regulatory distance, and cultural distance between developed and developing economies are more likely to be moderated by the target country’s market size, natural resources base, and weak institutional laws, especially corporate tax and capital gains tax. Overall, the article contributes to institutional framework and political economy view of globalized production by reviewing the crucial research question – what determines cross-border merger and acquisition transactions around the world?
               
The choice of location of foreign direct investments (FDI) by multinational enterprises (MNEs) has been the subject of intense scrutiny for decades and continues to be so. Yet, the vast diversity in methodological approaches, levels of analysis, and empirical evidence precludes a comprehensive understanding of the phenomenon. We review and evaluate 153 quantitative studies on FDI location choice over four decades from 1976 to 2015 across multiple disciplines, including international business, management, economics, urban and regional studies, and economic geography. Our review provides a comprehensive analysis of the empirical evidence and methodological implications to guide future empirical research on FDI location choice.
               
Torrefied biomass has considerable potential as a biomass fuel to replace coal in energy and process heat production. The aim of this paper is to evaluate the potential of torrefied biomass in different industries, both power and non-power generation industries, and considers the impact of such use on the international biomass market. The power generation sector has been so far the leader in testing torrefied biomass use with other industrial demand lagging behind. There are promising technical possibilities for greater torrefied biomass use in a number of other areas such as the steel, non-metallic minerals, as well as the pulp and paper industries. Although a large increase in torrefied biomass consumption by industry is not immediately foreseeable, industrial use by actors outside the energy generation sector could increase demand for torrefied biomass in general and, as a result, stimulate development of global torrefied biomass markets. Results show that the torrefied biomass demand significantly depends on the bioenergy markets. It seems that despite of the challenges, the growth of torrefied biomass demand will have a large progress in coming years.
               
District heating has been used as heating energy provider for buildings since the half of 19th century. It evolved together with buildings towards higher energy efficiency. Today the energy production systems, hooked up to the district heating network, are able to produce both heating energy and electricity. In some particular cases, also cooling energy is produced. Nowadays it is extensively used in Nordic countries, especially in Finland; subject of this study. Actually, Finnish district heating is facing important challenges, since new European regulations are coming into play affecting both energy generation methods and building energy efficiency. Basically, buildings are becoming more efficient and renewable technologies more cost-effective. Particularly, buildings consume less heating energy, due to high level of insulation, and adopt low temperature indoor distribution systems. Furthermore, new electrical appliances are penetrating into buildings, generating also cooling loads in summer even in cold climates. In addition to these, new effective technologies are available on the market. All these aspects are inducing the district heating to evolve. This study discusses relevant issues for a smooth transformation of the current Finnish district heating towards the future generation. Authors, after an extensive review of the existing district heating operating practices and of the promising innovative technologies network integration, suggested possible and realistic technologies integration scenarios.
              
The paper investigates how corporate language influences the career mobility of MNC employees in Russia. We apply human capital theory to show how language may be valued in an organizational context. In our work we use a framework that demonstrates that corporate language may act as a glass ceiling. The results show that employees in Russian MNCs with a lower level of corporate language skills will be less likely to consider vertical and horizontal career mobility than employees with a higher level of these language skills. Equally, employees in Russian MNCs with a lower level of corporate language skills will be less likely to consider internal and external career mobility than those employees with a higher level of these language skills. We prove that corporate language may act both as a barrier and as a facilitator for the career mobility of employees in Russian MNCs who have different levels of corporate language skills.
              
Relationships between business firms and public sector actors are raising an increasing scholarly interest, and they play a critical role for business in the emerging markets. Public officials, as executors of state laws and regulations, are important public actors, but we know little about firms' interaction with them. This study examines how foreign MNCs with an established position in Russia deal with public officials in practice. Public–private net is developed as an analytic tool and applied in an empirical investigation of two Finnish MNCs with operations in Russia. The study focuses on daily activities of managers when interacting with Russian public officials. It reveals a complex structure of public–private nets: on-going interaction relationships involve several MNC units and various Russian public officials. Firms maintain several simultaneous relationships with public officials. Furthermore, they also rely on intermediaries and may build indirect relationships to create some distance to public officials. The results show that relationships with public officials carry an important supportive role in business, and the relationships are mainly used for mutual information exchange.
               
This paper addresses foreign direct investment (FDI) entry strategies of multinational enterprises (MNEs) by analysing both establishment mode (greenfield investment vs. acquisition) and ownership mode (wholly owned subsidiary vs. joint venture) strategies together. It contributes to extant IB literature by being one of the first to specifically address influences of economic freedom distance on both FDI establishment and ownership mode strategies of MNEs. The novel empirical sample consisting of 348 FDIs made by 146 Nordic (Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden) MNEs in the less researched transitional periphery of the European Union (EU), i.e. Common Wealth of Independent States (CIS) and South-Eastern Europe (SEE), during 1990–2009 further enhances the contribution of our study. The study results revealed that high economic freedom distance leads to preference of greenfield investments and JVs by Nordic MNEs in the full sample. Further in depth analysis by dividing the sample into FDIs in the Russian Federation vs. other host economies lead to more interesting insights into the establishment and ownership mode strategies of Nordic MNEs.
               
This study provides empirical evidence on the link between economic growth and nutrition transition in two emerging economies, China and Russia. Both countries have experienced rising average incomes, accompanied by an increasing rate of nutrition-related chronic diseases in recent years. Given the regional heterogeneity between these two countries, we analyze the extent to which income growth as a major driver of nutrition transition has a significant effect on the consumption of different food aggregates and how these effects differ between Chinese and Russian consumers. Our results indicate that with increasing household incomes over time the demand for carbohydrates decreases, while the demand for meat and dairy products, as well as fruits increases. This is a development generally known as nutrition transition. Further, we estimate a Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand System (QUAIDS) for nine different food aggregates for China and Russia. Our results indicate that in both countries all food aggregates have positive expenditure elasticities and are thus normal goods. Moreover, our results indicate that in 2008/2009 meat is still a luxury good in China yet a necessity good in Russia. For 2009, the highest own-price elasticities in China are found for non-meat protein sources and dairy products. Within the meat group, beef, poultry and mutton have the highest price elasticities in China. In Russia, the milk and dairy group, together with the vegetable group, is the most price-elastic food group in 2008. In line with the definition of a nutrition transition, our overall results underscore the finding that income growth in China and Russia tends to increase the demand for animal-based products much stronger than, for example, the demand for carbohydrates. Despite being a positive signal for problems of malnutrition in rural China, this trend of increasing meat consumption might further increase the incidence of chronic diseases in urban areas since there is convincing scientific evidence that increasing meat consumption, especially red and processed meat, is associated with an increased risk of chronic diseases.
               
This paper seeks to describe the processes through which cross-border tourism networks emerge and to identify the main elements that foster the consolidation of shared tourism governance structures. The case study analyses a process that initiates and solidifies cross-border structures in the Cerdanya Valley – Catalan Pyrenees region through a thick description of their evolution. Major findings include five main categories of factors influencing emergence processes of cross-border destination making: institutional similarity, bridging actors, leadership and entrepreneurial capacities, close relationships, and serendipity. Insights for managers and stakeholders involved in cross-border destination development and management are provided in the discussion.
           
Commitment in the internationalization process model (IP-model) is challenged by the search for knowledge through experience and interactions. Critics opposing this logic even forced the founder of the model to call for the need for integration of other elements in order to understand irregular behaviour like rapid internationalization, loss of commitment and market exit. Aligned with this call, the paper raises the question of how the IP-model can be applied to analyse both regular/incremental and irregular/non-incremental behaviour of the firms. To reach an answer, the paper proposes a theoretical view by adding expectation and unknown uncertainty to the IP-model and examines this in a case study. The contribution is a further development of the IP-model by merging these two concepts that provide tools for understanding irregular behaviour. The paper analyses a Swedish firm's internationalization in different foreign markets for the period of 1995–2009. Conclusions support the understanding of how the model can describe regular incremental and irregular non-incremental commitment behaviour.
               
In this paper, we investigate competition in banking systems in the EU27 as a whole for the period 2004–2010, but also for old members’ banking systems compared with new members’ banking systems and for banking systems from countries member of euro zone compares with banking systems from countries non-member of euro zone. In order to investigate this issue, we estimate a non-structural indicator of banking competition, using the H-statistic indicator that is estimated using bank-level data. Also, we apply two tests of convergence, β- and σ-convergence, for assessing competition evolution during the specified period. We want to fill the gap in the banking literature testing the validity of the Competition–Efficiency Hypothesis, analysing the impact of the banking competition measures on two alternative measures of efficiency, cost and profit efficiency, in the European banking systems in a Granger-causality manner. The results confirm us that in the EU the convergence process occur from the banking systems with higher competition level than the mean score of all countries. The evidence for all groups of countries, except non-euro zone group, where results are not statistically significant, confirm the Competition–Efficiency Hypothesis in terms of cost and profit efficiency.
               
Transboundary Protected Areas (TBPAs) are often characterised as a viable strategy in facilitating the participation of crossborder communities in crossborder nature-based tourism business partnerships. In southern Africa, the introduction of these expansive initiatives has however, not resulted in such developments. Extant attempts to investigate the reasons for this gap are dominated by a focus on the adequacy or otherwise, of physical infrastructural facilities that are usually deemed crucial to achieving successful crossborder cooperation. Useful as this approach is, its robustness is questionable especially because it seems wholly inspired by a conceptualisation of borders as essentially physical entities. However, there is a growing body of literature that subscribes to the idea that borders exist both in space and mind. In this context, through qualitative in-depth personal interviews, this study scrutinizes the Makuleke Community's border narratives and experiences to determine the extent to which interiorised cognitive borders are implicated in the manner in which they approach the idea of forging crossborder tourism business partnerships with their regional counterparts. One major finding is that there are significant cognitive barriers to cross-boundary cooperation. The study recommends the institutionalisation of diverse spatial socialisation programmes to build trust, social capital and intercultural awareness to encourage crossborder communities to exhibit approach rather than avoidance behaviour towards each other.
               
This article examines the implementation of voluntary forest certification in Russia and the role it has played so far as a mechanism of multi-level governance with the potential to create sustainable forestry. The evidence was gathered from a data-set of over a hundred in-depth interviews with individuals from business, communities, state and non-governmental organizations in several major forestry regions in the European and Far-Eastern parts of Russia. The respondents' views regarding the nature and effects of certification were wide ranging. Certification is associated with new and powerful tools that are an alternative to coercive state governance, which may become instrumental in ensuring law enforcement and sustainability. At the same time, the combination of commercial drivers behind certification and the lack of social controls may lead to the institutionalization of existing, not necessarily desirable, forestry practices. Our paper shows that the inconsistent outcomes of certification are highly related to path-dependent social institutions and local practices. The expectations for internationally-devised schemes aimed at establishing sustainable forest management can be easily thwarted by the behavior of individuals involved at the local level. Greater focus on low-level actors is required for effective realization of multi-level governance in Russian forestry.
               
In an effort to approach the mixed findings regarding the relationship between a firm's industrial service offering and its performance, this study analyzes the impact of the industrial service offering on sales growth and the moderating role of network capabilities. The proposed research model is tested based on data from 91 Finnish manufacturing firms. Our results demonstrate a non-linear effect of the service offering on sales growth. We also find that network capabilities enhance the effect of the service offering on sales growth. For managers of manufacturing firms, the results imply that the active development of a comprehensive service offering should be implemented in conjunction with the development of organizational capabilities, such as network capabilities, to create value and promote improved performance.
               
While the existing knowledge sharing literature, in general, emphasizes the link between organizational culture and knowledge sharing, it remains rather ambiguous about how certain components of the former may shape the latter. This issue is especially relevant to multinational corporations (MNCs), which typically consist of multiple organizational (sub)cultures and whose existence depends, to a great extent, on sharing knowledge across borders. The present study examines the influence of one key component of organizational culture – organizational values – on knowledge sharing. From 2003 to 2007, we studied Danisco, a Danish MNC, to examine the processes of espousement, enactment and internalization of a core organizational value – dialogue. In particular, we studied how these processes influence knowledge sharing behavior among employees. We collected original empirical data using content analysis and a questionnaire-based survey among 219 managers and employees in 11 countries in four continents. We argue that knowledge sharing behavior is not influenced by organizational values per se but by the degree of their internalization by organizational members.
               
This article explores the domain of international entrepreneurship (IE) research by thematically mapping and assessing the intellectual territory of the field. Extant reviews show that the body of IE knowledge is growing, and while notable contributions towards theoretical and methodological integration are evident, the field is described as phenomenally based, potentially fragmented and suffering from theoretical paucity. Premising that IE is positioned at the nexus of internationalization and entrepreneurship where entrepreneurial behavior involves cross-border business activity, or is compared across countries, we identify 323 relevant journal articles published in the period 1989–2009. We inventory the domain of IE to provide a relevant and comprehensive organization of its research. This involves examining the subject matter of IE research, and inductively synthesizing and categorizing it into major themes and sub-themes. In so doing, we offer a reliable, ontologically constructed and practically useful resource. From this base, we discuss the phenomena, issues, inconsistencies and interim debates on which new theory in IE may be built and research may be conducted. We conclude that IE has several coherent thematic areas and is rich in potential for future research and theory development.

This paper aims to shed light on the management of supply chains, or rather, demand supply networks (DSN) in emerging markets by foreign companies. According to our definition, specific DSN opportunity development processes are directed towards better functionality and coordination of product, finance and information flows across the DSN. As a consequence, improved performance of the DSN may be achieved, in order to support and realize competitive business strategy and facilitate value creation for customers. To illustrate the concepts and the model, empirical evidence is presented that establishes the role of changing network structures and incumbent capabilities as constraints for DSN opportunity capture, especially in emerging markets. Our results show that DSN positioning strategies designed to overcome these constraints and facilitate opportunity capture, must be proactive, well-timed and innovative.

               
More than ten years after the break-up of the Soviet economy, Russia, which continues to undergo long-term change, still represents a very complex business environment. Subsidiaries of multinational companies (MNCs) operating in this environment can adapt successfully only by means of organizational learning. Learning processes should materialize as the mutual exchange of knowledge between expatriates and local employees. However, learning is complicated in a cross-cultural setting. This study examines barriers to learning and discusses management tools to enhance learning, using comprehensive case study data. In-depth personal interviews were conducted with 35 expatriate managers and 36 Russian employees working at 22 different subsidiaries of MNCs in Moscow and the Moscow Region.

This paper examines the role of international boundaries as perceived barriers to tourism. Borders that divide similar cultural groups and where few safety issues exist are the focus of this study. Qualitative data were gathered from visitors at the International Peace Garden on the USA–Canada boundary, and interviews were conducted with administrators and border officials to see whether or not this frontier is perceived to be a barrier to tourism and if so to understand the nature of its barrier functions. For most tourists, the Canada–USA border does not function as a major barrier to travel. However, for a small cohort it does, and the crossing formalities, border officials, and lack of information work together to create a subjective hindrance to travel at a place where good international relations otherwise exist.

               
Going alone on an adventure tour can be hazardous. This holds for individuals as well as for small and medium size firms aiming for major international markets. Business communities therefore follow a joint path of gradual internationalization that resembles the internationalization process of firms. However, the co-evolution of the firm and its networks implies that firms can plan and control their internationalization path only to a limited extent.
Our survey evidence shows the importance of partner-country-specific knowledge in the case of Russia. Our case evidence sheds more light on the dynamics of entry, as events in the network, and expansion of the network, motivate increased commitment. In particular, we find international entry to be driven by a high degree of serendipity.

The purpose of this article is to analyse, via the cross-cultural literature, some of the interactions from a bi-cultural Anglo-Russian project, and to use this analysis to aid cross-cultural understandings in future projects. The paper takes the form of a short description of the project and the research, followed by a sketch of the Russian socio-educational context in which the project took place, and then the cultural challenges that we encountered, together with an interpretation by reference to cross-cultural theory. The conclusion tentatively offers some generalisable factors that may help future Anglo-Russian joint ventures.

